Lionel work ex 4 (#24)
mitre/fhir-exercises: Exercise_4/docs/part-1.md

 ||EHR System Component| Description |
 |--|---------|-----------------|
 |![computer](img/computer.png)| **User Interface** | The user interface (UI) is a fundamental component of almost any clinical application, and is used within an EHR to both enter and display patient health records.|
 |![computer](img/records.png)| **Record Services** | Record services are a set of services for managing patient health records. Record services provide functions like entering data into health records, searching for and retrieving health records, querying or extracting data from health records, and communicating or exchanging health records with other systems or applications. Record services interact with other components in this model such as the UI. | 
|![computer](img/services.png)| **Terminology Services** | Terminology services are those services that directly manage the terminology resources. They include functions like querying concepts, relationships and reference sets, and installing or updating SNOMED CT from release files. | 

> |![computer](img/api.png)| **API Services** | Application Program Interface (API) services are a set of services for managing exchange of patient health record information with external parties. These services interface closely with terminology and record services to package information for export, and injest and unpack incoming information for internal storage and utilization. | 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|![computer](img/api.png)| **API Services** | Application Program Interface (API) services are a set of services for managing exchange of patient health record information with external parties. These services interface closely with terminology and record services to package information for export, and ingest and unpack incoming information for internal storage and utilization. | 
```

    | File | Description| 
    |---------|-----------------|
    |allergies.csv	|Patient allergy data|
    careplans.csv	|Patient care plan data, including goals.	
    claims.csv	|Patient claim data.	
    claims_transactions.csv	|Transactions per line item per claim.	
    conditions.csv	|Patient conditions or diagnoses.	
    devices.csv	|Patient-affixed permanent and semi-permanent devices.	
    encounters.csv	|Patient encounter data.	
    imaging_studies.csv	|Patient imaging metadata.	
    immunizations.csv	|Patient immunization data.	
    medications.csv	|Patient medication data.	
    observations.csv	|Patient observations including vital signs and lab reports.	
    organizations.csv	|Provider organizations including hospitals.	
    patients.csv	|Patient demographic data.	
    payer_transitions.csv	|Payer Transition data (i.e. changes in health insurance).	
    payers.csv	|Payer organization data.	
    procedures.csv	|Patient procedure data including surgeries.	
    providers.csv	|Clinicians that provide patient care.	
    supplies.csv	|Supplies used in the provision of care.	

For example, in an EHR, we might view a list of patients as a table:

> ??? example "Patients Table"
>     |Id                                  |BIRTHDATE |DEATHDATE|SSN        |DRIVERS  |PASSPORT  |PREFIX|FIRST     |LAST        |SUFFIX|MAIDEN        |MARITAL|RACE |ETHNICITY  |GENDER|BIRTHPLACE                      |ADDRESS                        |CITY         |STATE     |COUNTY               |ZIP  |LAT               |LON                |HEALTHCARE_EXPENSES|HEALTHCARE_COVERAGE|
>     |------------------------------------|----------|---------|-----------|---------|----------|------|----------|------------|------|--------------|-------|-----|-----------|------|--------------------------------|-------------------------------|-------------|----------|---------------------|-----|------------------|-------------------|-------------------|-------------------|
>     |42574859-0c77-3889-9b2e-d5476bd0cbd6|2017-08-04|         |999-20-7307|         |          |      |Torie475  |Effertz744  |      |              |       |black|nonhispanic|F     |Concord  California  US         |585 Olson Neck Apt 22          |Oakley       |California|Contra Costa County  |94561|37.974941339405255|-121.64559719784606|75225.57           |65.28              |
>     |38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|2001-12-22|         |999-72-8255|S99955340|X28520028X|Ms.   |Micaela928|Castañeda925|      |              |       |white|hispanic   |F     |Roseau  Saint George  DM        |905 Kuvalis Lane Suite 6       |Los Angeles  |California|Los Angeles County   |90077|34.17799692198641 |-118.45345768459985|519801.03          |354.99             |
>     |cc837cec-8d1b-31d3-ff1b-4554b32bce35|2002-10-04|         |999-71-4536|S99991837|          |Ms.   |Lorinda137|Ankunding277|      |              |       |white|nonhispanic|F     |Glendora  California  US        |1040 Hintz Fork Suite 42       |Alpaugh      |California|Tulare County        |93201|35.85467564565039 |-119.49516206503664|67434.37           |105532.46          |
>     |db56e012-d085-bc77-be8d-b2cb7540f813|1994-11-07|         |999-40-5557|S99975480|X18819519X|Mrs.  |Keisha459 |Walsh511    |      |Heidenreich818|M      |asian|nonhispanic|F     |Huntington Beach  California  US|227 Abernathy Boulevard Unit 19|San Francisco|California|San Francisco County |94111|37.78431771268959 |-122.44773848994711|937646.90          |99.97              |
>     |cc1c0787-b215-3ce4-ef57-41c4b7169434|1973-08-27|         |999-31-9860|S99990549|X13756124X|Mr.   |Dana512   |Nitzsche158 |      |              |M      |white|hispanic   |M     |American Canyon  California  US |787 Ernser Walk                |Santa Clarita|California|Los Angeles County   |91355|34.4617083155669  |-118.56212511979317|1740481.36         |8317.76            |
>     |d4321c71-bdaa-4085-61a1-43cfd876afdc|1990-11-19|         |999-90-7254|S99919958|X69927630X|Mr.   |Frances376|Lynch190    |      |              |M      |asian|nonhispanic|M     |Salinas  California  US         |227 McClure Skyway             |Santa Rosa   |California|Sonoma County        |95403|38.46180438357993 |-122.72061413299186|860907.41          |459.33             |
>     |bf494d2b-8dcf-b448-92c0-a9bb496ad81c|1970-04-16|         |999-57-3297|S99966587|X21870103X|Mr.   |Roberto515|Ferrer164   |      |              |M      |white|hispanic   |M     |Caguas  Puerto Rico  PR         |117 Gleason Mission            |Long Beach   |California|Los Angeles County   |90713|33.825405425893045|-118.16523195240173|1294493.97         |4725.56            |
>     |19543ef9-644c-1c9d-d0d5-e0fcec4670da|1985-06-11|         |999-90-3002|S99931470|X2800981X |Mrs.  |Omega729  |Trantow673  |      |Hessel84      |M      |white|hispanic   |F     |Torrance  California  US        |318 Schaden Manor              |Phelan       |California|San Bernardino County|92371|34.434310800795046|-117.5878097238367 |1981802.53         |22848.21           |
>     |e5bffa4c-f113-e154-28ec-5dd5a51efc74|1999-06-20|         |999-10-3386|S99980475|X214587X  |Ms.   |Raeann749 |Hauck852    |      |              |       |white|nonhispanic|F     |Sausalito  California  US       |411 Feil Well Suite 13         |Malaga       |California|Fresno County        |     |36.65117620339231 |-119.74924813381965|904124.12          |4949.56            |
>     |43a16fb4-b96c-b481-4fa0-c9c39c130224|1957-08-12|         |999-57-9595|S99953108|X81604053X|Mrs.  |Jolanda321|Flatley871  |      |Zieme486      |M      |white|nonhispanic|F     |Rocklin  California  US         |541 Wintheiser Avenue Unit 42  |Beaumont     |California|Riverside County     |92223|33.781281235931075|-116.90570546282912|1630601.76         |428479.92          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? example "Patients Table"
      |Id                                  |BIRTHDATE |DEATHDATE|SSN        |DRIVERS  |PASSPORT  |PREFIX|FIRST     |LAST        |SUFFIX|MAIDEN        |MARITAL|RACE |ETHNICITY  |GENDER|BIRTHPLACE                      |ADDRESS                        |CITY         |STATE     |COUNTY               |ZIP  |
      |------------------------------------|----------|---------|-----------|---------|----------|------|----------|------------|------|--------------|-------|-----|-----------|------|--------------------------------|-------------------------------|-------------|----------|---------------------|-----|
      |42574859-0c77-3889-9b2e-d5476bd0cbd6|2017-08-04|         |999-20-7307|         |          |      |Torie475  |Effertz744  |      |              |       |black|nonhispanic|F     |Concord  California  US         |585 Olson Neck Apt 22          |Oakley       |California|Contra Costa County  |94561|
      |38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|2001-12-22|         |999-72-8255|S99955340|X28520028X|Ms.   |Micaela928|Castañeda925|      |              |       |white|hispanic   |F     |Roseau  Saint George  DM        |905 Kuvalis Lane Suite 6       |Los Angeles  |California|Los Angeles County   |90077|
      |cc837cec-8d1b-31d3-ff1b-4554b32bce35|2002-10-04|         |999-71-4536|S99991837|          |Ms.   |Lorinda137|Ankunding277|      |              |       |white|nonhispanic|F     |Glendora  California  US        |1040 Hintz Fork Suite 42       |Alpaugh      |California|Tulare County        |93201|
      |db56e012-d085-bc77-be8d-b2cb7540f813|1994-11-07|         |999-40-5557|S99975480|X18819519X|Mrs.  |Keisha459 |Walsh511    |      |Heidenreich818|M      |asian|nonhispanic|F     |Huntington Beach  California  US|227 Abernathy Boulevard Unit 19|San Francisco|California|San Francisco County |94111|
      |cc1c0787-b215-3ce4-ef57-41c4b7169434|1973-08-27|         |999-31-9860|S99990549|X13756124X|Mr.   |Dana512   |Nitzsche158 |      |              |M      |white|hispanic   |M     |American Canyon  California  US |787 Ernser Walk                |Santa Clarita|California|Los Angeles County   |91355|
      |d4321c71-bdaa-4085-61a1-43cfd876afdc|1990-11-19|         |999-90-7254|S99919958|X69927630X|Mr.   |Frances376|Lynch190    |      |              |M      |asian|nonhispanic|M     |Salinas  California  US         |227 McClure Skyway             |Santa Rosa   |California|Sonoma County        |95403|
      |bf494d2b-8dcf-b448-92c0-a9bb496ad81c|1970-04-16|         |999-57-3297|S99966587|X21870103X|Mr.   |Roberto515|Ferrer164   |      |              |M      |white|hispanic   |M     |Caguas  Puerto Rico  PR         |117 Gleason Mission            |Long Beach   |California|Los Angeles County   |90713|
      |19543ef9-644c-1c9d-d0d5-e0fcec4670da|1985-06-11|         |999-90-3002|S99931470|X2800981X |Mrs.  |Omega729  |Trantow673  |      |Hessel84      |M      |white|hispanic   |F     |Torrance  California  US        |318 Schaden Manor              |Phelan       |California|San Bernardino County|92371|
     |e5bffa4c-f113-e154-28ec-5dd5a51efc74|1999-06-20|         |999-10-3386|S99980475|X214587X  |Ms.   |Raeann749 |Hauck852    |      |              |       |white|nonhispanic|F     |Sausalito  California  US       |411 Feil Well Suite 13         |Malaga       |California|Fresno County        |     |
      |43a16fb4-b96c-b481-4fa0-c9c39c130224|1957-08-12|         |999-57-9595|S99953108|X81604053X|Mrs.  |Jolanda321|Flatley871  |      |Zieme486      |M      |white|nonhispanic|F     |Rocklin  California  US         |541 Wintheiser Avenue Unit 42  |Beaumont     |California|Riverside County     |92223|
```

Deleted the last few columns, as they are not in an EHR and it will confuse or alarm some people (but this data is generated as part of Synthea).

We can see demographic data about these patients. Don’t worry, these are synthetic patients.

Each patient also has a list of Encounters (these are the visits) where they received care. For example:

> ??? example "Encounters Table"
>     |Id                                  |START     |STOP                |PATIENT    |ORGANIZATION|PROVIDER  |PAYER|ENCOUNTERCLASS|CODE        |DESCRIPTION                                                     |BASE_ENCOUNTER_COST|TOTAL_CLAIM_COST|PAYER_COVERAGE|REASONCODE |REASONDESCRIPTION|
>     |------------------------------------|----------|--------------------|-----------|------------|----------|-----|--------------|------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------|----------------|--------------|-----------|-----------------|
>     |1988a1e8-be1c-f376-0947-e6ef3d851706|2017-08-04T14:30:14Z|2017-08-04T14:45:14Z|42574859-0c77-3889-9b2e-d5476bd0cbd6|f4fb0326-c6ce-34f2-96fc-451af75cdde9|65d369aa-dc8d-3a67-a054-e8e2e5148c91|42c4fca7-f8a9-3cd1-982a-dd9751bf3e2a|wellness      |410620009   |Well child visit (procedure)                                    |146.76             |402.69          |0.00          |           |                 |
>     |43f55900-14f6-4310-440b-c34398531881|2013-01-05T15:06:33Z|2013-01-05T15:21:33Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|d93b6804-6ca1-345d-a334-3e497b52e0f7|3ac820b9-b38e-304b-b9b6-8958ad2ffc63|4d71f845-a6a9-3c39-b242-14d25ef86a8d|wellness      |410620009   |Well child visit (procedure)                                    |146.76             |1629.70         |0.00          |           |                 |
>     |e6b49657-1b8a-a3f8-ba68-abfb7ceb8429|2017-09-08T14:30:14Z|2017-09-08T14:45:14Z|42574859-0c77-3889-9b2e-d5476bd0cbd6|f4fb0326-c6ce-34f2-96fc-451af75cdde9|65d369aa-dc8d-3a67-a054-e8e2e5148c91|42c4fca7-f8a9-3cd1-982a-dd9751bf3e2a|wellness      |410620009   |Well child visit (procedure)                                    |146.76             |826.98          |0.00          |           |                 |
>     |43756071-53a9-c553-9e53-d5579d869a59|2014-01-11T15:06:33Z|2014-01-11T15:21:33Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|d93b6804-6ca1-345d-a334-3e497b52e0f7|3ac820b9-b38e-304b-b9b6-8958ad2ffc63|d47b3510-2895-3b70-9897-342d681c769d|wellness      |410620009   |Well child visit (procedure)                                    |146.76             |1645.25         |0.00          |           |                 |
>     |3dfe4128-1081-13b3-5157-0708939fb2f9|2015-01-17T15:06:33Z|2015-01-17T15:21:33Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|d93b6804-6ca1-345d-a334-3e497b52e0f7|3ac820b9-b38e-304b-b9b6-8958ad2ffc63|5059a55e-5d6e-34d1-b6cb-d83d16e57bcf|wellness      |410620009   |Well child visit (procedure)                                    |146.76             |1019.26         |0.00          |           |                 |
>     |39ee963b-e4dd-e869-1fc3-662aab3b2bb0|2016-01-23T15:06:33Z|2016-01-23T15:21:33Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|d93b6804-6ca1-345d-a334-3e497b52e0f7|3ac820b9-b38e-304b-b9b6-8958ad2ffc63|5059a55e-5d6e-34d1-b6cb-d83d16e57bcf|wellness      |410620009   |Well child visit (procedure)                                    |146.76             |883.26          |0.00          |           |                 |
>     |8ced2121-b15e-8d4b-4734-a7ee3a40db1a|2017-11-10T14:30:14Z|2017-11-10T14:45:14Z|42574859-0c77-3889-9b2e-d5476bd0cbd6|f4fb0326-c6ce-34f2-96fc-451af75cdde9|65d369aa-dc8d-3a67-a054-e8e2e5148c91|42c4fca7-f8a9-3cd1-982a-dd9751bf3e2a|wellness      |410620009   |Well child visit (procedure)                                    |146.76             |1442.36         |0.00          |           |                 |
>     |b2cc5208-4d02-7cd1-6032-a06920d4b106|2017-01-28T15:06:33Z|2017-01-28T15:21:33Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|d93b6804-6ca1-345d-a334-3e497b52e0f7|3ac820b9-b38e-304b-b9b6-8958ad2ffc63|4d71f845-a6a9-3c39-b242-14d25ef86a8d|wellness      |410620009   |Well child visit (procedure)                                    |146.76             |1350.13         |0.00          |           |                 |
>     |bb11eefe-e1b3-1595-9700-dd4e1b3258e0|2018-01-12T14:30:14Z|2018-01-12T14:45:14Z|42574859-0c77-3889-9b2e-d5476bd0cbd6|f4fb0326-c6ce-34f2-96fc-451af75cdde9|65d369aa-dc8d-3a67-a054-e8e2e5148c91|42c4fca7-f8a9-3cd1-982a-dd9751bf3e2a|wellness      |410620009   |Well child visit (procedure)                                    |146.76             |826.76          |65.28         |           |                 |
>     |258df7cd-c3fd-9446-4e7a-3028bfadf3cc|2017-10-25T22:06:33Z|2017-10-25T22:21:33Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|7dbe8a71-ceef-3e3e-b99e-fc3d1b5921a1|04fddee1-adc9-3f08-9e90-dac1b01cf48f|4d71f845-a6a9-3c39-b242-14d25ef86a8d|ambulatory    |185345009   |Encounter for symptom                                           |82.02              |87.68           |0.00          |10509002   |Acute bronchitis (disorder)|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? example "Encounters Table"
|Id|DATE|PATIENT|ORGANIZATION|PROVIDER|PAYER|ENCOUNTERCLASS|CODE|DESCRIPTION|PAYER_COVERAGE|REASONCODE|REASONDESCRIPTION|
|--|----|-------|------------|--------|-----|--------------|----|-----------|--------------|----------|-----------------|
|bb11eefe|1/12/18|42574859|f4fb0326|65d369aa|42c4fca7|wellness|410620009|Well child visit (procedure)|||
|258df7cd|10/25/17|38b9dfb6|7dbe8a71|04fddee1|4d71f845|ambulatory|185345009|Encounter for symptom|10509002|Acute bronchitis (disorder)|
|a644af36|11/4/17|38b9dfb6|7dbe8a71|04fddee1|4d71f845|outpatient|185349003|Encounter for check up (procedure)|||
|dab2c529|12/11/17|38b9dfb6|7dbe8a71|04fddee1|4d71f845|outpatient|698314001|Consultation for treatment|||
|f8878c7e|12/26/18|42574859|48adcf1c|43929461|b1c428d6|ambulatory|185347001|Encounter for problem|||
|4a5fc869|3/23/18|38b9dfb6|7dbe8a71|04fddee1|4d71f845|ambulatory|185345009|Encounter for symptom|444814009|Viral sinusitis (disorder)|
|ea468580|1/26/19|42574859|48adcf1c|43929461|b1c428d6|outpatient|185345009|Encounter for symptom|65363002|Otitis media|
|1455e3d7|8/4/19|42574859|48adcf1c|43929461|4d71f845|inpatient|185347001|Encounter for problem (procedure)|91861009|Acute myeloid leukemia  disease (disorder)|
|2ce584d1|2/15/20|38b9dfb6|d93b6804|3ac820b9|42c4fca7|wellness|162673000|General examination of patient (procedure)|||
```

Filtered the data I sent to have some more variety in this table...

    |2020-08-02                          |2020-08-20|42574859-0c77-3889-9b2e-d5476bd0cbd6|adfbf7e0-8d90-ad8d-d9c1-1e7bf02f9ea2|444814009|Viral sinusitis (disorder)|

In these examples, we see each condition or diagnosis has a CODE. Again, these examples use SNOMED CT codes, but other common terminologies include International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (Tenth Revision) (ICD-10). We can see from the descriptions that some of these codes are clinical diagnoses, such as Hyperlipidemia, a history of Stroke, and Diabetic Retinopathy. However, some of these data points can also be Social Determinants of Health (SDoH) such as stress, limited social contact, and social isolation.

During an Encounter, the clinical staff may perform Procedures on patients, which are recorded with CODEs. Some of these procedures also document a REASONCODE. These examples use SNOMED CT codes, but other common terminologies to encode procedures include Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) and Healthcare Common Procedure Coding System (HCPCS).

> ??? example "Procedures Table"
>     |START                               |STOP      |PATIENT             |ENCOUNTER  |CODE     |DESCRIPTION|BASE_COST|REASONCODE|REASONDESCRIPTION                         |
>     |------------------------------------|----------|--------------------|-----------|---------|-----------|---------|----------|------------------------------------------|
>     |2013-01-05T15:06:33Z                |2013-01-05T15:21:33Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43f55900-14f6-4310-440b-c34398531881|430193006|Medication Reconciliation (procedure)|819.01   |          |                                          |
>     |2014-01-11T15:06:33Z                |2014-01-11T15:17:17Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43756071-53a9-c553-9e53-d5579d869a59|171207006|Depression screening (procedure)|600.50   |          |                                          |
>     |2014-01-11T15:06:33Z                |2014-01-11T15:21:33Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43756071-53a9-c553-9e53-d5579d869a59|430193006|Medication Reconciliation (procedure)|625.99   |          |                                          |
>     |2014-01-11T15:17:17Z                |2014-01-11T15:37:26Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43756071-53a9-c553-9e53-d5579d869a59|715252007|Depression screening using Patient Health Questionnaire Nine Item score (procedure)|43.04    |          |                                          |
>     |2014-01-11T15:37:26Z                |2014-01-11T15:51:39Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43756071-53a9-c553-9e53-d5579d869a59|428211000124100|Assessment of substance use (procedure)|600.50   |          |                                          |
>     |2014-01-11T15:51:39Z                |2014-01-11T16:19:37Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43756071-53a9-c553-9e53-d5579d869a59|868187001|Assessment using Car  Relax  Alone  Forget  Friends  Trouble Screening Test (procedure)|600.50   |          |                                          |
>     |2014-01-11T16:19:37Z                |2014-01-11T16:33:57Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43756071-53a9-c553-9e53-d5579d869a59|386516004|Anticipatory guidance (procedure)|600.50   |          |                                          |
>     |2015-01-17T15:06:33Z                |2015-01-17T15:19:22Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|3dfe4128-1081-13b3-5157-0708939fb2f9|428211000124100|Assessment of substance use (procedure)|600.50   |          |                                          |
>     |2015-01-17T15:19:22Z                |2015-01-17T15:32:51Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|3dfe4128-1081-13b3-5157-0708939fb2f9|868187001|Assessment using Car  Relax  Alone  Forget  Friends  Trouble Screening Test (procedure)|600.50   |          |                                          |
>     |2015-01-17T15:32:51Z                |2015-01-17T15:38:38Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|3dfe4128-1081-13b3-5157-0708939fb2f9|386516004|Anticipatory guidance (procedure)|600.50   |          |                                          |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? example "Procedures Table"
      |START                               |STOP      |PATIENT             |ENCOUNTER  |CODE     |DESCRIPTION|REASONCODE|REASONDESCRIPTION                         |
      |------------------------------------|----------|--------------------|-----------|---------|---------|----------|------------------------------------------|
      |2013-01-05T15:06:33Z                |2013-01-05T15:21:33Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43f55900-14f6-4310-440b-c34398531881|430193006|Medication Reconciliation (procedure)|          |                                          |
      |2014-01-11T15:06:33Z                |2014-01-11T15:17:17Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43756071-53a9-c553-9e53-d5579d869a59|171207006|Depression screening (procedure)|          |                                          |
      |2014-01-11T15:06:33Z                |2014-01-11T15:21:33Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43756071-53a9-c553-9e53-d5579d869a59|430193006|Medication Reconciliation (procedure)|          |                                          |
      |2014-01-11T15:17:17Z                |2014-01-11T15:37:26Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43756071-53a9-c553-9e53-d5579d869a59|715252007|Depression screening using Patient Health Questionnaire Nine Item score (procedure)|          |                                          |
      |2014-01-11T15:37:26Z                |2014-01-11T15:51:39Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43756071-53a9-c553-9e53-d5579d869a59|428211000124100|Assessment of substance use (procedure)|         |                                          |
      |2014-01-11T15:51:39Z                |2014-01-11T16:19:37Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43756071-53a9-c553-9e53-d5579d869a59|868187001|Assessment using Car  Relax  Alone  Forget  Friends  Trouble Screening Test (procedure)|          |                                          |
      |2014-01-11T16:19:37Z                |2014-01-11T16:33:57Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43756071-53a9-c553-9e53-d5579d869a59|386516004|Anticipatory guidance (procedure)|         |                                          |
      |2015-01-17T15:06:33Z                |2015-01-17T15:19:22Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|3dfe4128-1081-13b3-5157-0708939fb2f9|428211000124100|Assessment of substance use (procedure)|         |                                          |
      |2015-01-17T15:19:22Z                |2015-01-17T15:32:51Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|3dfe4128-1081-13b3-5157-0708939fb2f9|868187001|Assessment using Car  Relax  Alone  Forget  Friends  Trouble Screening Test (procedure)|          |                                          |
      |2015-01-17T15:32:51Z                |2015-01-17T15:38:38Z|38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|3dfe4128-1081-13b3-5157-0708939fb2f9|386516004|Anticipatory guidance (procedure)|         |                                          |
```

Don't include the costs... they also are not typically in a patient's clinical data.

Other common data elements include medications, either administered or prescribed, and diagnostic lab results and vital sign measurements. Sometimes the measurements and results are called Observations.

> ??? example "Medications Table"
>     |START                               |STOP      |PATIENT             |PAYER      |ENCOUNTER|CODE      |DESCRIPTION|DISPENSES |REASONCODE  |REASONDESCRIPTION                                               |
>     |------------------------------------|----------|--------------------|-----------|---------|----------|-----------|----------|------------|----------------------------------------------------------------|
>     |10/25/17                            |11/11/17  |38b9dfb6            |4d71f845   |258df7cd |313782    |Acetaminophen 325 MG Oral Tablet|1         |10509002    |Acute bronchitis (disorder)                                     |
>     |12/11/17                            |12/6/18   |38b9dfb6            |4d71f845   |dab2c529 |748879    |Levora 0.15/30 28 Day Pack|12        |            |                                                                |
>     |12/26/18                            |          |42574859            |b1c428d6   |f8878c7e |1014676   |cetirizine hydrochloride 5 MG Oral Tablet|41        |            |                                                                |
>     |12/26/18                            |          |42574859            |b1c428d6   |f8878c7e |1870230   |NDA020800 0.3 ML Epinephrine 1 MG/ML Auto-Injector|41        |            |                                                                |
>     |1/26/19                             |2/9/19    |42574859            |b1c428d6   |ea468580 |313820    |Acetaminophen 160 MG Chewable Tablet|1         |            |                                                                |
>     |12/1/19                             |11/25/20  |38b9dfb6            |42c4fca7   |f6bae05e |1367439   |NuvaRing 0.12/0.015 MG per 24HR 21 Day Vaginal Ring|12        |            |                                                                |
>     |8/4/19                              |8/4/19    |42574859            |4d71f845   |1455e3d7 |199885    |levofloxacin 500 MG Oral Tablet|1         |91861009    |Acute myeloid leukemia  disease (disorder)                      |
>     |3/3/21                              |3/17/21   |42574859            |4d71f845   |ac66a7e2 |308192    |Amoxicillin 500 MG Oral Tablet|1         |            |                                                                |
>     |3/3/21                              |3/17/21   |42574859            |4d71f845   |ac66a7e2 |198405    |Ibuprofen 100 MG Oral Tablet|1         |            |                                                                |
>     |11/25/20                            |11/20/21  |38b9dfb6            |047f6ec3   |6744ffa1 |751905    |Trinessa 28 Day Pack|12        |            |                                                                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? example "Medications Table"
|START|STOP|PATIENT|PAYER|ENCOUNTER|CODE|DESCRIPTION|DISPENSES|REASONCODE|REASONDESCRIPTION|
|-----|----|-------|-----|---------|----|-----------|---------|----------|-----------------|
|10/25/17|11/11/17|38b9dfb6|4d71f845|258df7cd|313782|Acetaminophen 325 MG Oral Tablet|1|10509002|Acute bronchitis (disorder)|
|8/4/19|8/4/19|42574859|4d71f845|1455e3d7|199885|levofloxacin 500 MG Oral Tablet|1|91861009|Acute myeloid leukemia  disease (disorder)|
|3/3/21|3/17/21|42574859|4d71f845|ac66a7e2|308192|Amoxicillin 500 MG Oral Tablet|1|||
|10/1/17|10/15/17|cc837cec|7c4411ce|c5a57e3b|834061|Penicillin V Potassium 250 MG Oral Tablet|1|43878008|Streptococcal sore throat (disorder)|
|11/1/21|db56e012|b1c428d6|b8747433|1000126|1 ML medroxyPROGESTERone acetate 150 MG/ML Injection|6|||
|8/28/13|9/9/14|cc1c0787|047f6ec3|2e83c267|314076|lisinopril 10 MG Oral Tablet|377|59621000|Hypertension|
|8/20/13|9/2/14|19543ef9|4d71f845|b8622808|308136|amLODIPine 2.5 MG Oral Tablet|378|59621000|Hypertension|
|3/25/22|4/1/22|19543ef9|b1c428d6|a9e97d81|311989|Nitrofurantoin 5 MG/ML Oral Suspension|1|301011002|Escherichia coli urinary tract infection|
|3/25/22|4/1/22|19543ef9|b1c428d6|a9e97d81|1094107|Phenazopyridine hydrochloride 100 MG Oral Tablet|1|301011002|Escherichia coli urinary tract infection|
|12/8/20|43a16fb4|b1c428d6|485fd2ef|854252|1 ML Enoxaparin sodium 150 MG/ML Prefilled Syringe|2|706870000|Acute pulmonary embolism (disorder)|
|12/12/20|43a16fb4|b1c428d6|39667ccc|1807513|vancomycin 1000 MG Injection|17|87628006|Bacterial infectious disease (disorder)|
```

None of the medications or procedures you selected had reasons associated with them....

    |2013-01-05T15:06:33Z                |38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43f55900-14f6-4310-440b-c34398531881|vital-signs|8302-2   |Body Height|138.9   |cm       |numeric                                   |
    |2017-08-04T14:30:14Z                |42574859-0c77-3889-9b2e-d5476bd0cbd6|1988a1e8-be1c-f376-0947-e6ef3d851706|vital-signs|9843-4   |Head Occipital-frontal circumference|36.0    |cm       |numeric                                   |
    |2013-01-05T15:06:33Z                |38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43f55900-14f6-4310-440b-c34398531881|vital-signs|72514-3  |Pain severity - 0-10 verbal numeric rating [Score] - Reported|1.0     |{score}  |numeric                                   |
    |2017-08-04T14:30:14Z                |42574859-0c77-3889-9b2e-d5476bd0cbd6|1988a1e8-be1c-f376-0947-e6ef3d851706|vital-signs|8462-4   |Diastolic Blood Pressure|71.0    |mm[Hg]   |numeric                                   |
    |2013-01-05T15:06:33Z                |38b9dfb6-29f6-60c8-ef37-6210064feac0|43f55900-14f6-4310-440b-c34398531881|vital-signs|29463-7  |Body Weight|28.0    |kg       |numeric                                   |

>     |2017-08-04T14:30:14Z                |42574859-0c77-3889-9b2e-d5476bd0cbd6|1988a1e8-be1c-f376-0947-e6ef3d851706|vital-signs|8480-6   |Systolic Blood Pressure|119.0   |mm[Hg]   |numeric                                   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? example "Observations Table"
|DATE|PATIENT|ENCOUNTER|CATEGORY|CODE|DESCRIPTION|VALUE|UNITS|
|----|-------|---------|--------|----|-----------|-----|-----|
|8/4/17|42574859|1988a1e8|vital-signs 8462-4|Diastolic Blood Pressure|71|mm[Hg]|
|8/4/17|42574859|1988a1e8|vital-signs 8480-6|Systolic Blood Pressure 119|mm[Hg]|
|8/4/17|42574859|1988a1e8|vital-signs 8867-4|Heart rate|88|/min|
|8/4/17|42574859|1988a1e8|vital-signs 9279-1|Respiratory rate|12|/min|
|8/4/17|42574859|1988a1e8|laboratory|718-7 Hemoglobin [Mass/volume] in Blood|14.6|g/dL|
|8/4/17|42574859|1988a1e8|laboratory|4544-3|Hematocrit [Volume Fraction] of Blood by Automated count|40.4|%|
|8/4/17|42574859|1988a1e8|social-history|72166-2|Tobacco smoking status NHIS|Never smoker||
|2/15/20|38b9dfb6|2ce584d1|survey|93026-3|Do you feel physically and emotionally safe where you currently live?|Yes||
```

You didn't include the smoking status observation, and you only included vital signs.....

Commonly used coding standards for structured data include:  **LOINC, CPT, SNOMED CT, ICD-10, and RxNorm, etc.**​ It is important to have a general understanding of these coding systems because they have become the standard for rendering structured data in an interoperable manner.

### LOINC

**Logical Observation Identifiers Names and Codes (LOINC®)**, is a proprietary clinical terminology that is important for laboratory test orders and results, and is one of a suite of designated standards for use in U.S. Federal Government systems for the electronic exchange of clinical health information. 

Managed by the Regenstrief Institute, LOINC has been identified by the Health Level 7 (HL7) Standards Development Organization as a preferred diagnostic report code set for laboratory test identification in transactions between health care facilities, laboratories, laboratory testing devices and public health authorities.

See here: [https://www.hl7.org/fhir/diagnosticreport-definitions.html#DiagnosticReport.code](https://www.hl7.org/fhir/diagnosticreport-definitions.html#DiagnosticReport.code){target=_blank}

> LOINC codes are divided into Test Order and Test Result codes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LOINC codes are divided into Order and Observation codes.
```
"Test Order" and "Test Result" is from Mayo Clinic, and that is not the terminology used by LOINC itself.

> ??? example "Test Order Code Structure and Examples"
>     Test Order codes are 5 digit numeric codes appended with a dash and 6th number. Form: XXXXX-X

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? example "LOINC Orders Structure and Examples"
     LOINC codes are 5 digit numeric codes appended with a dash and 6th number. Form: XXXXX-X
```

    e.g.,
        As an example, one of the more popular codes is: `2160-0` for `Creatinine [Mass/volume] in Serum or Plasma`
        Source:  [https://loinc.org/2160-0/](https://loinc.org/2160-0/){target=_blank}

    Additional attributes associated with LOINC test codes include:

    * LOINC code
    * Long Common Name
    * Status
    *Additional names
    * Class
    * Type
    * Order vs. Observation
    * Member of these panels
    * Member of these groups
    * Example Units

    e.g.,

>     An example can be found here: [ https://loinc.org/69049-5/]( https://loinc.org/69049-5/){target=_blank} and further details here [https://loinc.org/kb/users-guide/introduction/](https://loinc.org/kb/users-guide/introduction/){target=_blank}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An example of a very common order is for a blood type test. [https://loinc.org/34531-4/](https://loinc.org/34531-4/){target=_blank} and further details here [https://loinc.org/kb/users-guide/introduction/](https://loinc.org/kb/users-guide/introduction/){target=_blank}
```

>     |LOINC code|Long Common Name|Status|Additional names|Class|Type|Order vs. Observation|Member of these panels|Member of these groups|Example Units|
>     |---------|-----------------|------------------|------------------|-------------|-----|-----|------|----|----|
>     | 69049-5  | Coagulation specialist review of results | Active | Coagulation specialist review[Interp] | MISC | Laboratory | Observation| 93321-8	PT mixing study panel - Platelet poor plasma by Coagulation ass | | |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    |LOINC code|Long Common Name|Status|Additional names|Class|Type|Order vs. Observation|Member of these panels|Member of these groups|Example Units|
    |34531-4|Blood type and Crossmatch panel - Blood|Active|Blood type and Crossmatch panel (Bld)| PANEL.BLDBK| Laboratory| Order||||
```

The example you gave was not even for an order, it was for an "observation"

> ??? example "Test Result Code Structure and Examples"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
??? example "LOINC Result Code Structure and Examples"
```

    | LOINC Values Updated | Test ID | Test Order Name | Result ID | Test Result Name| Result LOINC Code | LOINC Attributes | Method Name |
    |----------------------|---------|-----------------|-----------|-----------------|-------------------|------------------|-------------|

>     | 2022-03-11 | CNSA | Central Nervous System Consultation, Autopsy, Varies | 71070 | Interpretation | 18743-5 | Autopsy report:Find:Pt:{Setting}:Doc:{Role} | Includes hermatoxylin and eosin stains. Additional special stains or procedures necessary for diagnosis will be billed separately. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| LOINC Code|Long Common Name| Component|Class|Type|Order vs. Observation|
|-----------|----------------|----------|-----|----|---------------------|
| 883-9 | ABO group [Type] in Blood | ABO group | BLDBK | Laboratory | Both |

The [LOINC code 883-9][https://loinc.org/883-9/] also has an *answer list* associated with the result. In this case:

| Answer | Answer ID |
|--------|-----------|
| Group A | LA19710-5 |
| Group B | LA19709-7 |
| Group O | LA19708-9 |
| Group AB | LA28449-9 |
```

The code you had was an autopsy code.... and wasn't really a good example....

    
    Source: [https://loinc.org/kb/users-guide/introduction/](https://loinc.org/kb/users-guide/introduction/){target=_blank}

!!! danger "Additional Resource on LOINC codes"
    Additonal infomration on the **LOINC coding terminology** is available here: [https://loinc.org]( https://loinc.org){target=_blank}

??? question "Knowledge Check: Where would I look to find human-readable description of the specific LOINC code?"

>     The `Test Order Name` attribute provides additional details on the specific LOINC code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The `Long Common Name` attribute provides additional details on the specific LOINC code.
```

Reviewer 2: Resolving this because jay posted a more comprehensive edit below.

>     The `Test Order Name` attribute provides additional details on the specific LOINC code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The `Long Common Name` attribute provides the human-readable description for a specific LOINC code.
```
